The President: Hi, everybody.
This week, I spent some
time in Colorado
and Texas, talking with people
about what's going
on in their lives.
One of them was Elizabeth
Cooper,
who'll be a college junior this fall.
She wrote to tell me
something I hear often:
how hard it is for
middle-class families
like hers to afford college.
And she shared something I
know many of you feel
when you wonder what's
going on in Washington.
She said she feels "not
significant enough
to be addressed, not poor enough
for people
to worry about, and not rich
enough to be cared about."
I ran for President to
fight for Americans
just like Elizabeth - people
who work hard,
do everything right, and just
want a chance
to build a decent life for
themselves and their families.
And after the worst
economic crisis
in generations, our
businesses have
now created nearly 10 million
new jobs over the past 52 months.
The unemployment rate has
fallen
to its lowest point since 2008.
By almost every measure,
our economy
is better off than it was
five years ago.
But while we've created
more jobs at this point
of the year than any year
since 1999,
too many families barely earn
what they did in 1999.
It's harder to pay for
college, save,
or retire, because people's
wages and
incomes have not gone up.
Nearly all the gains of
the recovery are going
to the very top - and aren't
making
a difference in your lives.
And I believe America does
better
when the middle class does better.
And I've laid out an
opportunity agenda
to create jobs, train
workers, educate our kids,
and make sure hard work
actually pays off.
These are the things we
should be doing
to grow the middle class and
help folks work their
way into the middle class.
And it's pretty
uncontroversial stuff.
I hope we can work
together on it.
And I'm always willing to
compromise if folks have
other ideas or if it
advances generally
the interests of
working Americans.
But so far this year,
Republicans in Congress
have blocked every serious
idea to strengthen the middle class.
Lifting the minimum wage,
fair pay,
student loan reform - they've
said no to all of it.
And that's when I've acted
this year
to help working Americans on my
own- when Congress won't act.
I've taken actions to
attract new jobs,
lift workers' wages, help
students
pay off their loans, and more.
And the Republican plan
right now is not to do some
of this work with me -
instead, it's to sue me.
That's actually what
they're
spending their time on.
It's a political stunt
that's going to waste
months of America's time.
And by the way, they're
going
to pay for it using your
hard-earned tax dollars.
I have a better idea:
do something, Congress.
Do anything to help
working Americans.
Join the rest
of the country.
Join me, I'm looking
forward
to working with you.
You know, on Tuesday, I
met with Carolyn Reed
and her husband David,
who own six Silver Mine Sub shops in Colorado.
Two days later, they
announced they're giving
their hourly employees a
raise to ten dollars
and ten cents an hour.
They're not waiting
for Congress.
Carolyn said, "We are
happy to be a part
of what I hope will be a growing
voluntary
trend in increased wages."
Carolyn and Americans like
her all across
the country are happy to
do their part.
Congress now needs to
step up and do its part.
And next week, I'll travel
to a couple of job sites
to talk about how
Democrats and Republicans
can work together to grow
the economy
and protect nearly 700,000 jobs
by passing a highway
bill by the end of the summer.
I'm here because
hardworking Americans
like Elizabeth and Carolyn.
That's something I'll
never forget -
it's something I'll never
stop fighting for.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.